# object-recognition-benchmark

This is a project for object recognition and tracking benchmarking, where we compare results obtained from different AI models and approaches



The models currently analyzed include YOLOv10, RT-DETR, and Microsoft's Florence-2-large architectures.



\## Repository Structure



\* `input/`: Contains the raw source video file.

\* `output/`: Root directory for all files generated by the scripts.

&#x20;   \* `bbox/`: Contains the raw extracted detection coordinate data in a structured format, such as `detections.json` (used to bypass real-time rendering limits of heavier models).

&#x20;   \* `metrics/`: Archives the `.csv` files containing frame-by-frame performance data (Inference Time in ms, Average Confidence).

&#x20;   \* `video/`: Contains the reconstructed `.mp4` videos rendered with overlaid bounding boxes and labels.

\* `scripts/`: Contains the execution source codes.

&#x20;   \* `rtdetr.py`: Inference and metric extraction script for the RT-DETR architecture via Ultralytics.

&#x20;   \* `yolo10.py`: Inference and metric extraction script for the YOLOv10 family models (e.g., Nano, Large).

&#x20;   \* `florence.py`: Inference script for the Florence-2-large VLM. It performs contextual search (\*phrase grounding\*), processes textual output via regex, and generates the JSON file with coordinates.

&#x20;   \* `florence\_render.py`: Script for offline video rendering using the data generated by `florence.py`.



\## Hardware Requirements and Installation



This project is strictly dependent on GPU hardware acceleration. To leverage the Tensor Cores of the NVIDIA architecture and avoid severe bottlenecks or CPU fallbacks, it is required to use precompiled PyTorch libraries with the specific CUDA binaries for your system.



1\. \*\*Virtual environment creation and activation:\*\*

&#x20;  ```bash

&#x20;  python -m venv pitstop\_env

&#x20;  pitstop\_env\\Scripts\\activate



2\. \*\*Dependency installation:\*\*

&#x20;  To automatically install all necessary libraries at their correct versions, run the following command from the root directory:



&#x20;  ```bash

&#x20;  pip install -r requirements.txt

## Execution 



\# RT-DETR Evaluation

python scripts/rtdetr.py



\# YOLOv10 Evaluation

python scripts/yolo10.py



\# Florence-2 Evaluation (Logic generation and metrics)

python scripts/florence.py



\# Florence-2 Visual output rendering

python scripts/florence\_render.py

